CMake 3.31 Release Notes
************************

.. only:: html

  .. contents::

Changes made since CMake 3.30 include the following.

* On AIX, shared libraries may now be created as shared library archives.
  See the :variable:`CMAKE_AIX_SHARED_LIBRARY_ARCHIVE` variable
  and :prop_tgt:`AIX_SHARED_LIBRARY_ARCHIVE` target property.

* The :prop_tgt:`MACOSX_FRAMEWORK_BUNDLE_NAME <MACOSX_FRAMEWORK_INFO_PLIST>`
  target property was added to set the ``CFBundleName`` key in an Apple
  :prop_tgt:`FRAMEWORK`'s ``Info.plist`` file.

* The :variable:`CMAKE_HOST_EXECUTABLE_SUFFIX` variable was added to
  provide suffix for executable names on the host platform.

* The :option:`cmake -LR[A][H]` option was added to list cache entries
  whose names match a regular expression.

* The :command:`cmake_pkg_config` command was added as an endpoint for using
  CMake's native pkg-config format parser. The only supported option in this
  release is ``EXTRACT``, which provides low-level access to the values
  produced by parsing a pkg-config file. For most users, this is not yet a
  suitable replacement for the :module:`FindPkgConfig` module.

* When executing a CMake workflow preset, the ``--preset`` option can now be
  omitted, allowing the simpler command line
  :option:`cmake --workflow \<preset\> <cmake--workflow --preset>`.

* The :ref:`Ninja Generators` and :ref:`Makefile Generators` now produce
  a ``codegen`` build target.  See policy :policy:`CMP0171`.  It drives a
  subset of the build graph sufficient to run custom commands created with
  :command:`add_custom_command`'s new ``CODEGEN`` option.

* The :command:`add_custom_command` command gained a ``CODEGEN`` option
  to mark a custom commands outputs as dependencies of a ``codegen`` target.

* The :cpack_gen:`CPack DEB Generator` gained a
  :variable:`CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_MULTIARCH` option
  to support multi-arch packages.

* The :cpack_gen:`CPack IFW Generator` gained the new
  :variable:`CPACK_IFW_PACKAGE_PRODUCT_IMAGE_URLS` variable to
  specify images associated with entries of
  :variable:`CPACK_IFW_PACKAGE_PRODUCT_IMAGES`.
  This feature is available for QtIFW 4.0 and newer.

* The :cpack_gen:`CPack RPM Generator` gained support for ``zstd`` as a
  :variable:`CPACK_RPM_COMPRESSION_TYPE` value.

* The :module:`CPack` module enables per-machine installation by default
  in the :cpack_gen:`CPack WIX Generator`.  See policy :policy:`CMP0172`
  and the :variable:`CPACK_WIX_INSTALL_SCOPE` variable.

* The :variable:`CMAKE_<LANG>_HOST_COMPILER_ID` and
  :variable:`CMAKE_<LANG>_HOST_COMPILER_VERSION` variables were added,
  where ``<LANG>`` is either ``CUDA`` or ``HIP``.  They are populated
  when :variable:`CMAKE_<LANG>_COMPILER_ID` is ``NVIDIA`` to identify
  NVCC's host compiler.

* The :module:`FindCUDAToolkit` module now provides a ``CUDA::nvml_static``
  target.

* The :command:`file(DOWNLOAD)` and :command:`file(UPLOAD)` commands now
  verify TLS server certificates for connections to ``https://`` URLs by
  default.  See the :variable:`CMAKE_TLS_VERIFY` variable for details.
  This change was made without a policy so that users are protected
  even when building projects that have not been updated.
  Users may set the :envvar:`CMAKE_TLS_VERIFY` environment
  variable to ``0`` to restore the old default.

* The :command:`ctest_submit` command and :option:`ctest -T Submit <ctest -T>`
  step now verify TLS server certificates for connections to ``https://`` URLs
  by default.  See the :variable:`CTEST_TLS_VERIFY` variable for details.

* The :command:`file(DOWNLOAD)` and :command:`file(UPLOAD)` commands now
  require TLS 1.2 or higher for connections to ``https://`` URLs by default.
  See the :variable:`CMAKE_TLS_VERSION` variable for details.

* The :command:`ctest_submit` command and :option:`ctest -T Submit <ctest -T>`
  step now require TLS 1.2 or higher for connections to ``https://`` URLs by
  default.  See the :variable:`CTEST_TLS_VERSION` variable for details.

* The :module:`CMakeFindFrameworks` module has been deprecated via
  :policy:`CMP0173`. Projects should use :command:`find_library` instead.

* Compatibility with versions of CMake older than 3.10 is now deprecated
  and will be removed from a future version.  Calls to
  :command:`cmake_minimum_required` or :command:`cmake_policy` that set
  the policy version to an older value now issue a deprecation diagnostic.

* The :command:`file(GET_RUNTIME_DEPENDENCIES)` command was updated
  to more closely match the dynamic loader's behavior on Linux.

* The :command:`execute_process` command's ``ENCODING`` option,
  meaningful on Windows, now defaults to ``UTF-8``.
  See policy :policy:`CMP0176`.

* The :command:`file(ARCHIVE_CREATE)` command gained a ``WORKING_DIRECTORY``
  option to specify a working directory for the archiving process.

* The :module:`FindOpenMP` module gained support for the ``CUDA`` language.

* The :command:`gtest_discover_tests` command gained a new
  ``DISCOVERY_EXTRA_ARGS`` keyword.  It allows extra arguments to be
  appended to the command line when querying for the list of tests.

* The :command:`install(FILES)` and :command:`install(DIRECTORY)` commands'
  ``TYPE`` argument gained support for a ``LIBEXEC`` type.

* The :module:`CMakePackageConfigHelpers` module's
  :command:`generate_apple_platform_selection_file` function
  gained support iOS Mac Catalyst.

* The LFortran compiler is now supported with
  :variable:`compiler id <CMAKE_<LANG>_COMPILER_ID>` ``LFortran``.

* The :variable:`CMAKE_LINK_LIBRARIES_STRATEGY` variable and
  corresponding :prop_tgt:`LINK_LIBRARIES_STRATEGY` target
  property were added to optionally specify the strategy
  CMake uses to generate link lines.

* The :module:`CMakePushCheckState` module ``cmake_push_check_state``,
  ``cmake_pop_check_state`` and ``cmake_reset_check_state`` macros
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCCompilerFlag` module ``check_c_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCSourceCompiles` module ``check_c_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCSourceRuns` module ``check_c_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCXXCompilerFlag` module ``check_cxx_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCXXSourceCompiles` module ``check_cxx_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCXXSourceRuns` module ``check_cxx_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCXXSymbolExists` module ``check_cxx_symbol_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckCompilerFlag` module ``check_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckFortranCompilerFlag` module ``check_fortran_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckFortranFunctionExists` module ``check_fortran_function_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckFortranSourceCompiles` module ``check_fortran_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckFortranSourceRuns` module ``check_fortran_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckFunctionExists` module ``check_function_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckIncludeFile` module ``check_include_file`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckIncludeFileCXX` module ``check_include_file_cxx`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckIncludeFiles` module ``check_include_files`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCCompilerFlag` module ``check_objc_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckLibraryExists` module ``check_library_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCCompilerFlag` module ``check_objc_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCSourceCompiles` module ``check_objc_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCSourceRuns` module ``check_objc_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCXXCompilerFlag` module ``check_objcxx_compiler_flag`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCXXSourceCompiles` module ``check_objcxx_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckOBJCXXSourceRuns` module ``check_objcxx_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckPrototypeDefinition` module ``check_prototype_definition`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckSourceCompiles` module ``check_source_compiles`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckSourceRuns` module ``check_source_runs`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckStructHasMember` module ``check_struct_has_member`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckSymbolExists` module ``check_symbol_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckTypeSize` module ``check_type_size`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* The :module:`CheckVariableExists` module ``check_variable_exists`` macro
  learned to honor the ``CMAKE_REQUIRED_LINK_DIRECTORIES`` variable.

* Targets with C++ modules may now export their module compile commands using
  the :prop_tgt:`EXPORT_BUILD_DATABASE` target property. This is initialized
  with the :variable:`CMAKE_EXPORT_BUILD_DATABASE` variable which is itself
  initialized using the :envvar:`CMAKE_EXPORT_BUILD_DATABASE` environment
  variable. Only supported with the :ref:`Ninja Generators`.

* All ``DESTINATION`` arguments in :command:`install` commands
  are now :ref:`normalized <Normalization>`, with the exception
  of ``INCLUDES DESTINATION`` arguments in the ``TARGETS`` form.

* Empty list elements in the :prop_tgt:`TEST_LAUNCHER` and
  :prop_tgt:`CROSSCOMPILING_EMULATOR` target properties are now preserved
  when the executable for a command given to :command:`add_test` is a CMake
  target. See policy :policy:`CMP0178`.

* Empty list elements in the :prop_tgt:`TEST_LAUNCHER` and
  :prop_tgt:`CROSSCOMPILING_EMULATOR` target properties are now preserved
  for the test created by :command:`ExternalData_Add_Test` from the
  :module:`ExternalData` module.  See policy :policy:`CMP0178`.

* Empty list elements in the :prop_tgt:`TEST_LAUNCHER` and
  :prop_tgt:`CROSSCOMPILING_EMULATOR` target properties are now preserved
  for tests created by :command:`gtest_add_tests` and
  :command:`gtest_discover_tests` from the :module:`GoogleTest` module.
  Empty list elements after the ``EXTRA_ARGS`` keyword of these two commands
  are also now preserved.  See policy :policy:`CMP0178`.

* Preset files may now include comments using the key ``$comment``
  at any level within the JSON object to provide documentation.

* Preset files may now request graphviz output using the ``graphviz`` key
  in a configure preset.

* The :command:`project` command now always sets
  :variable:`<PROJECT-NAME>_SOURCE_DIR`, :variable:`<PROJECT-NAME>_BINARY_DIR`,
  and :variable:`<PROJECT-NAME>_IS_TOP_LEVEL` as both normal variables and
  cache entries.  See policy :policy:`CMP0180`.

* The :generator:`Visual Studio 12 2013` generator has been removed.

* The :variable:`CMAKE_<LANG>_STANDARD_LINK_DIRECTORIES` variable was added.
  Toolchain files can set this variable to control which link library directory
  paths are always passed to the compiler for the specified language.

* When static libraries on link lines are de-duplicated (by policy
  :policy:`CMP0156`), the first occurrence is now kept on all platforms.
  See policy :policy:`CMP0179`.

* The :prop_tgt:`UNITY_BUILD` target property now supports the
  CUDA (``CUDA``) language.

* The :prop_tgt:`VS_FRAMEWORK_REFERENCES` target property was added
  to tell :ref:`Visual Studio Generators` to add framework references.
