CMP0065
-------

Honor shared library link flags in :command:`try_compile` source-file
signature.

The :command:`try_compile` command source-file signature generates a
``CMakeLists.txt`` file to build the source file into an executable.
In order to compile the source the same way as it might be compiled
by the calling project, the generated project sets the value of the
:variable:`CMAKE_<LANG>_FLAGS` variable to that in the calling project.
The value of the :variable:`CMAKE_SHARED_LIBRARY_LINK_<LANG>_FLAGS`
variable may be needed in some cases, when it's changed from the
default settings in the Platform or Toolchain file, but CMake 3.3.1 and
lower did not set it in the generated project.  CMake 3.3.2 and above
prefer to set it so that the additional linker flags are honored as
well as compiler flags.  This policy provides compatibility with the
pre-3.3.2 behavior.

The OLD behavior for this policy is to not set the value of the
:variable:`CMAKE_SHARED_LIBRARY_LINK_<LANG>_FLAGS` variable in the
generated test project and just rely on the values loaded from the
Platform file.  The NEW behavior for this policy is to set the value of
the :variable:`CMAKE_SHARED_LIBRARY_LINK_<LANG>_FLAGS` variable in the
test project to the same as it is in the calling project.

If the project code does not set the policy explicitly, users may
set it on the command line by defining the
:variable:`CMAKE_POLICY_DEFAULT_CMP0065 <CMAKE_POLICY_DEFAULT_CMP<NNNN>>`
variable in the cache.

This policy was introduced in CMake version 3.3.2.  Unlike most policies,
CMake version |release| does *not* warn by default when this policy
is not set and simply uses OLD behavior.  See documentation of the
:variable:`CMAKE_POLICY_WARNING_CMP0065 <CMAKE_POLICY_WARNING_CMP<NNNN>>`
variable to control the warning.

.. include:: DEPRECATED.txt
