{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author deneb}{\operator deneb}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy18\hr16\min33}{\revtim\yr2001\mo7\dy18\hr16\min39}{\version2}{\edmins6}
{\nofpages1}{\nofwords187}{\nofchars1067}{\*\company Dell Computer Corporation}{\nofcharsws1310}{\vern8269}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs28 CMake Version 0.4
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20 
\par This is the 0.6
  beta release of CMake for Windows. This is still a beta release so no features or commands are fixed in stone. If you find bugs send them to kitware@kitware.com with a subject of CMake Bug. See http://public.kitware.com/CMake for additional information.

\par 
\par Changes from 0.4 to 0.6 
\par 
\par Library search paths now only look to .lib on Windows and .so .sl for UNIX.  CMakeLists files now supports escape sequences.   Better testing support. Depend checks expand variables. AUX_SOURCE_DIRECTORY no longer adds all files
, but looks at the source extension. Added CMAKE_COMPILER_IS_GNUCXX variable. Mac OSX support. Make sure Cache is cleared in the GUI. 
\par 
\par Changes from 0.2 to 0.4 
\par 
\par A number of fixes to support different UNIX compilers, better error reporting for the TARGET_LINK_LIBRARY command when a bad target is specified, when searching for programs CMake will no longer mistake a directory
 for a program, a resizing bug was fixed when CMake was minimized, the ADD_LIBRARY command now supports an optional argument that can specify if a library can only be built as static (or shared, or either).
\par 
\par Changes from 0.1 to 0.2
\par 
\par This release has a large number of changes, new features and bug fixes. Unlike version 0.1 the commands in this version are fairly stable. }{\f1\fs20 
\par }}